Date: 2006-7-27
Categories: old

# Stop Religion Before It Kills Us All!

Perhaps the greatest planetary emergency we face... greater than the global climate crisis, greater than global war, greater than global famine... is the perpetual stranglehold religion has on the good sense and reason of the human animal.  It is this seemingly innocuous, yet entirely pervasive aspect of human existence that, through it's prescribed and willful march toward <em>the end</em>, feeds all other crisis currently enveloping the planet.

Without a doubt religion has placated the minds of the believers and provided them with just enough moral wiggle room so they just don't feel the true weight of human suffering.  To them the world is as it is not because we as individuals or as a species fail to act to change things, but because that is the way it must be in order to validate the faith with which they live every day.  There is no sense in trying to change things... this is prophecy.

This fatalism is not restricted to the Bible schools, the congregations of Falwell and Robertson, or the Madrasahs in the Middle East... it is an ingrained part of governments worldwide.  Whether it's a blatant case of evangelical fundamentalism (as in our president) or a more subliminal case of political pandering (hello Democrats), the predisposition to eschatological deteminism is rampant.

We are saddled with a religion even before we have any sense of what that means.  We come of age in an environment in which our realites are molded by the tenets and practices of these religions and they become a filter through which the world passes into our experience.  Our actions rest upon the foundation of that experience and are limited to its boundries.  Outside the boundries of our actions lies God's will... that which must be.  Destruction of the Earthly flesh is God's will and it must be.

It would seem the only way forward is to move away from the controlling paradigm of traditional religions and churches and toward a new one of spirituality and humanism.  We must reposition our relationship to sacred text and start to view it as literature rather than prophecy.  In short there must be enlightenment... a global awakening in which we shed our traditional boundries and activley engage our experience rather than filtering it.  If we can make this happen we might have time to save ourselves, our planet, and perhaps we may even save God itself.
