Date: 2007-6-7
Categories: old

# My new scene… Kindie Rock!

<p>Dan Zanes... unless you have kids OR were really into indie rock in the eighties, you probably have no idea who he is.  Well my friends, the former mastermind behind the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Del_Fuegos">Del Fuegos</a> has a new lease on life and is making some of the best music of his career... for kids.  Make no mistake, this is not the stick a fork in your eye car trip repetitive kind of kids music... this is authentic roots music that is fit for adults. In fact I find myself listening to it while I'm alone.  It just has a really breezy vibe to it... no pretense, no pressure. </p>
<p>
<a>In this interview with emusic</a> he explores the intersection of parenthood and music and talks about the whole idea of the "kindie rock" scene, hipster parents, even some politics.  And if you do have kids (little ones, toddlers seem to dig him best) do YOURSELF a favor and buy them some <a href="http://www.danzanes.com/">Dan Zanes</a>.</p>

<blockquote>
Kids especially — being cool is not a part of their world, and thank God for that. I think in a way, that’s the beautiful thing about families and music and listening — that’s where we’re able to get away from all that, from worrying about what’s cool. The whole experience can be so innocent and so freeing, to be enjoying music with your kids. To bring this idea that what you’re listening to is either cool or not cool is really re-imposing the grown-up limitations on music.
</blockquote>
