Date: 2007-6-6
Categories: old

# the good christian

There was a big glowing red neon sign just above the doorway... it flickered on and off with a slight buzz and spewed the word "FORGIVE" out into the night.  She stood looking up at it for a moment, or perhaps it was an hour, she couldn't be too sure.  She had landed here and she quickly forgot everything that had conspired to deliver her to this exact point in space-time. It might have been a wormhole or a rift between dimensions or some other cosmic anomaly, but the fact was she was here. She looked up at the sign again and tried to think of the things she needed to forgive... she found it difficult to remember, but she knew she would have to if she wanted to go through the door... and for some reason she WANTED to get through that door.  She closed here eyes and after a moment... she remembered getting punched, bitten, kicked, stabbed, raped.  She remembered being held under water.  She felt it all again... she saw his eyes... the anger and pain and she pitied him. His wretchedness encompassed him, defined him, distorted and perverted him.  She could only feel, now, suddenly, love for him... a strange and sympathetic love. She stopped seeing her pain and his pain and just saw pain... universal, existential pain. In the brutal profanity of his act she saw a shared moment of physicality... a crashing together of souls in distress... a fragile splinter of failing humanity. She understood violence, war, aggression... held it in her mind... contemplated it... and let it go. As her eyes opened she saw the door ajar.  She looked toward it... she took a step, reached for the knob... and for the first time, she felt free.
