Date: 2007-3-14
Categories: /archive

# A floating house can’t burn to the ground

There's a fire in the house across the street.  First responders and adventurous neighbors are rushing inside looking for animals, cats, dogs, fish, people.  Water  streams down the sides of the house giving it an orange sheen that may be reflecting the flashing lights of the trucks, the early morning sun or even the glow of the fire itself.  The house was built in 1939 and at the time it was the only structure on the block... no H&amp;B towing... no Flanders Coffee and News... no Starburst Diner... nothing.  The world grew around it like weeds.  The house was built by an engineering student as part of a graduating thesis project and as such has a strange, confounding, mystical, but eventually lovable feature.  In fact, the house has no ground floor.  Its not on stilts or anything like that... it just kind of floats in the air, or appears to.  The thing is nobody has been able to figure out just how the student had done it.  He died shortly after graduating. In order to get into the house you had to stand under it and ring the doorbell that was mounted to the underside of the second floor.  The staircase would slowly lower and grant access.  And that is how the firemen got in.  As they rushed in and out the owner of the house (an engineering professor) just sat on the corner and laughed a semi-crazed laugh... he knew they were just wasting their time... a floating house can't burn to the ground... he's tried.
