Date: 2007-3-2
Categories: old

# PARAGRAPH is born, consciousness is streamed, depression offset

Writing here on this blog is a certain kind of writing.  While it's not the pained work of composition that a novel may be, it is the product of some deliberation.  I try to think about the post... try to have a point... something to say.  Needless to say that does not always come easy.  Many times I'm just not inspired to collect my thoughts, organize them, parse them, and package them in a nice neat conversational voice for consumption here.   Then there's the question of relevance... will what I'm trying to say have any real relevance to the defined context of this blog (namely is there something to be said about culture, technology, politics, or media).
<!--more-->
As I've <a href="/2007/02/05/when-inspiration-dies/">recently written...</a> when I can't or don't express my self I tend to get depressed.  Too much information taken in... not enough going out... depression sets in.  So I've decided to be proactive about the situation and create an alternate space... a space where I don't have to worry so much about "what" I'm saying and I can just write... anything.  It's an exercise really... something I used to do a lot of back in the day.  When I studied LIT I was a big fan of the stream of consciousness.  I used the technique heavily in my writing and appreciated it in others'.   So today I am pointing you to <a href="http://paragraph.bluepear.org">PARAGRAPH</a>... a return to form, or roots, or something.

<a href="http://paragraph.bluepear.org">PARAGRAPH</a> will live, hopefully, as an unfiltered outlet for my thoughts.  My aim is to post about a paragraph's worth of text for each post and to go into each post cold... no preconceptions or ideas, no theories or themes... just me and a blank screen mano y mano for about fifteen minutes a pop. If what comes out makes some sense fine, if not, fine.  If it sucks fine.  If it radiates with the light of the muse, fine. The bottom line is I don't care... I just want to take what's inside out.

I think this will make for some interesting reading and may even spark more cultivated pieces on this site.  Only time will tell.  What is certain, even at this early stage, is that <a href="http://paragraph.bluepear.org">PARAGRAPH</a> is already making me feel happy.
