Date: 2007-9-6
Categories: old

# Apple/Starbucks Deal is Important

It took me a little while to digest yesterday's iPod announcements, but now I think I know what I think... I think.  Anyway, what has me the most jazzed is the new Wi-Fi iPod Touch (not alone there) and the Starbucks "Now Playing" feature.  OK, I realize that the Starbucks integration looks, at first blush, kind of limited and useless. But the more I think about it the more I like it... not that I'm going to run out and buy the touch just just for that, but I do think this is glimpse of the future of music retail.  Imagine this being rolled out beyond Starbucks... making it a business service targeted at retail, restaurants, bars, hotels, malls, and anywhere else that uses music as background.  Hear a song, like a song, buy a song... no matter where, no matter when.  The concept could even be extended beyond music retail... information about historical places, museums, art galleries, movie theaters... all available through Wi-Fi, downloaded straight to the device.

I'm not alone in my enthusiasm... <a href="http://www.tuaw.com/2007/09/05/apple-and-starbucks-sitting-in-a-tree/">check out what TUAW is saying</a>:
<blockquote>Still think it's silly? Imagine when ten retailers are on board. Or twenty. Or television networks. Grey's Anatomy ends with a description of the week's featured pop tune. Why not grab it then and there?

When this catches on, it will be big.</blockquote>
Big indeed... this will fundamentally change the music discovery process.
