Date: 2007-4-20
Categories: old

# The 17th Street Assumption

Standing in front of the rows of brand new, hard-cover books he sees it plain as day... the end is near.  Apocalypse is certain.  Destruction imminent.  It's as if the entire universe has suddenly decided to open up to him all of its secrets... all of its inner workings... all of its truth.  It's right here, right in the NEW NON-FICTION section of the mega-book-emporium-chain-store-place in Union Square... in front of who knows how many eyes.  Hidden in plain sight is everything that anyone needs to know. Individually these books could be discounted as the ravings of a paranoid writer or the sensational trolling of a money hungry publisher, but here, together, in this group, they are most definitely a cosmic force.  He is realizing that there isn't much time.  He sees that it doesn't even matter whether it's a supervolcano, an alien invasion, peak oil, religious wars, or global warming that's going to do the deed... the ugly truth is that it is going to happen... something is going to happen.  It's predetermined... a living fact that is organically growing in the collective subconscious like a cancerous node.  We feel it.  We want it.  We thirst for it.  We will make it happen.  We have a perverse need for it.  For some reason, the thought of living in end times makes us happy... it makes us special.  As he stands in front of the books he looks to his left and then to his right and he, for the first time in his life, feels he understands... people.
