Date: 2007-3-20
Categories: /archive

# The truth, the negotiated truth, and nothing but the accepted and agreed upon
  terms

What a fucking scumbag!  Can you believe that absolutely guiltless fucking scumbag!?! He just sits there all calm and lies, obfuscates, distorts, bends reality.  His ties must be too god-damned tight... cutting off the flow of blood to his god-damned head.  That's it right?  He's not getting the oxygen he needs to have any sort of conscience... he's deprived of some physical element hat he needs in order to think like a normal person... it must be that. Otherwise he's just an evil little shit that puts on a suit and gets in front of a Congressional panel and tells everybody a sick, twisted, perverted, lie.   And those fucks... they just play right along.  Sure they act like they want the truth... truth.. what the fuck?  I don't think anyone in that town has any idea what truth is... what it looks like... what it feels like... not a single one of them.  They just fabricate some kind of accepted middle ground that lets them divide the wealth among themselves then they sit back and call it truth.  They broadcast it across the land into homes into children... this truth.  They sell it by the ounce... pure like caviar... a commodity. They sell it supersize with an bottomless sugar-soaked concoction and deep fried Idaho.  They give that smell, that showroom smell, and sell it under the watchful eye of Washington and Lincoln.   Truth, the negotiated and accepted version of it, is killing us off, slowly and in small groups of one.
