Date: 2007-7-20
Categories: /archive

# Going Micro

Not sure if anybody has noticed or not, but my usual posting habits have kind of... well dramatically... changed.  It's been a while since I've sat at the keyboard and given thought to anything that would require more than 140 characters to get out.  I have been bitten by the micro bug... I blame twitter, really... but I guess you could also lay some blame at the feet of more entrenched services like del.icio.us and Flickr that I'm using in new ways (for me at least). We could get deep into the why of this move, and that might be fodder for a longer essay down the road (once I can clarify what's going on inside my head), but for now I'm just enjoying the flow... the data flow that is my life... meaningless perhaps on a surface level... but I can't help that I'm subconsciously cooking up something good.

You'll also notice (if you're reading this at my site and not via feed) that I've redesigned the site to accentuate my new style. Twitter updates, latest Flickr photos, and del.icio.us links all up top...  followed by an essay section (which I may update once a month or so) and then a spot for notes (of which this is one) and a riff - freeform fiction in paragraph form.  These last two may get moved up since they'll probably update more often than the essay section, but we'll have to wait and see for sure.

<strong>UPDATE:</strong> The bottom two sections ("a note" and  "a paragraph") I have now moved on top of the essay section.  The change is due the fact that I plan to update these more frequently.
