Date: 2008-12-17
Categories: old

# At Magazines, It's 2.0 Steps Forward, 1.0 Step Back

<p><a href="http://www.observer.com/2008/media/magazines-it-s-2-0-steps-forward-1-0-step-back#comment-1160918">At Magazines, It's 2.0 Steps Forward, 1.0 Step Back | The New York Observer</a> - I have mixed emotions about this article at the New York Observer web site. Something in me wants to love it and cheer the good fortune of print while something else finds the whole tone of the story off base and to some extent repulsive.

On the one hand I can understand and to some extent agree with the general point of the article.  The web is a strange and foreign land to print publishers and rather than jump in there and waste precious resources on a venture that will not really make you any money it may be better to concentrate on what you do well.

On the other hand I can't help but feel that the article - and the editorial voices contained within it - are missing the real point.  As I noted in the comments section at the Observer: This entire argument is a red herring - the traditional magazine model has a lot more to fear besides the emergence of the web. Unless print magazines do something to address the severe problems they face in production, manufacturing and distribution they will forever be wallowing in the red.

I suppose what irks me the most about the story is the sad fact that it is too heavy with Editors.  While I have a deep respect for Graydon Carter, David Remnick and Anna Wintour I wouldn't necessarily turn to them for a handle on what's happening in the business of magazines.  Where are the quotes from the manufacturing directors, the paper buyers, the ad sales directors?

To me it seems that assuming an Editor has an educated opinion about the state of the magazine industry is like assuming that I can speak to the Detroit crisis because I have a drivers license.

