Date: 2008-12-9
Categories: /archive

# STACK independent magazine subscription and delivery

<p><a href="http://www.stackmagazines.com/">STACK independent magazine subscription and delivery</a>. I am a magazine junkie - and new, independent, well designed, beautifully printed, thoughtfully written magazines are the Horse I wrestle with.  Today I found a new dealer - STACK (or //STACK as their logo has it).  This UK based site aims to deliver "the magazines that have got the most distinctive voice, the best stories and most striking design" in a "stack" to your door.  

Curating and assembling independent magazines for distribution is a new approach and it's an interesting one - sure it can't really scale (I'm sure shipping US mags from the US to the UK and back is not a sustainable business practice) but with some refinements to the distribution model, who knows?

Still - it's not really the "stack" that I'm going to hitting the feed for - I'll be in it for the tip off... the awareness of new titles.  Unlike many who might see print as a dying medium I think that independent publishing - using ink on paper - is still a very compelling way to spread ideas.  Though individual titles may come and go quickly, the essence of the independent spirit - publishers who understand and respect the gravitas of printed objects - will thrive.  

So while disposable print media may in fact be dying a slow and painful death you can rest assured that soft, lovable, warm, inky, thoughtful print will live a long and happy life.


