Date: 2008-7-22
Categories: old

# A poorly edited missive written on an iPhone while speeding through New Jersey
  on a train

Like hundreds of other <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zSP8xm_gaK4" target="_blank">new media douchebags</a> I am - thanks to the "exciting" new WordPress app - writing this post on my iPhone. So - who gives a shit?

I don't really - it's kind of pointless. Unless of course a meteor lands in front of this train I'm on is there anything that I could write from my phone that couldn't have waited for a proper text editor? Are the misprllings and typos worth it?

Perhaps.

There might be some twisted literary justfication to be made.  Maybe Kerouac would have been down with this kind of first thought best thought style - but I'm just doing this to survive.

Any junior college convenience store clerk or "B2B" media CEO could tell you things are changing... That's obvious. What they can't or won't tell you is how they're all scared shitless. I'm not talking mere concern here friend - I mean flat out life threatening fear.

It's hysteria really. Good old honest, healthy, American hysteria. And nobody has a clue as to what comes next - we just have this vague sense that technology - the ability to post poorly copy edited missives from a move train - is the answer.

It might be. I don't know - and people a lot smarter than me don't know either. When what comes next is that uncertain - when the future is that high up in the air (so high up we can't even make out the soles of it's shoes - can't tell Nike From New Balance) the only thing to do is try everything. Go with the flow.

So this post was written and posted from a train speeding through suburban New Jersey. Hopefully the future will get here soon.

<a href="http://mturro.bluepear.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/p-640-480-02934c6a-2fc2-4bba-b3aa-1b6be5ab070d.jpeg">
</a>
