Date: 2008-11-20
Categories: /archive

# Designers Review of Books

<p>Since I am an unrepentant RSS addict I am always looking for new feeds to throw into my Google Reader. It's from that list of feeds that I draw the fodder for the Links category of this blog. Those links are - most often - deep links into those sites that I have found along the way - articles that pique my interest - that lead me (or incite me) to comment.  

What I don't do - or certainly don't do often - is comment on why I added the feed in the first place.  I'm changing that.  You may notice that this post falls into a category named "Feeds" - a new category intended to serve the pre-described purpose.  Now whenever I add a feed I'll make a note of it with a post to the Feeds category.  In short, I'll try to explain to you (and perhaps to myself) why I have decided to subscribe to the feed.

So - to the matter at hand - a new feed from the site <a href="http://www.designersreviewofbooks.com/">Designers Review of Books</a> -  of course a book review site for designers and design books. Design is a space that becomes more important by the day - design thinking, the creative process - are paths forward.  As the world comes crashing down around us we will need the tools to imagine and achieve new possibilities.  From the destruction of the familiar and the collapse of the preceding paradigm will come a new way of working - a new way of managing - that is fundamentally design driven.  These books might help you see your way through.

