Date: 2008-12-8
Categories: /archive

# ! 'Ink on paper: new links bleeding through my RSS'

Two new feeds to report on today - both printing related.  The first is an <a href="http://printceoblog.com">industry related blog (printceoblog.com)</a> that I was kind of surprised I wasn't already subscribed to.  According to the site's About page:
<blockquote>This blog filters the mounds of information available from trade magazines, events and Web sites into an essential summary for C-level executives in the printing industry.</blockquote>
I'm not a big fan of media directed to the "C-level" - in fact I kind of loathe the phrase all together - but the site seems to carry some interesting posts by some folks whose opinions I trust (Bo Sacks, really) so I decided to give it a try.  If it sucks and I end up pulling the feed  from my subscriptions I'll be sure to make a note of it.  In fact, I may start a new category here: Ex-Feeds.

The other new feed today is also printing related, but in a much more wholesome way.  In fact it could be the polar opposite end of the spectrum from the crass, industry oriented analysis offered at Print CEO Blog.  The <a href="http://evajorgensen.blogspot.com/">blog arm of the letterpress printer Sycamore Street Press</a> highlights some really beautiful, hand crafted letterpress print objects.  Let it be known - I am a complete sucker for good letterpress printing (hell, I'm a sucker for bad letterpress too).  There is just something more honest and real about the process.  The slowness of it, the deliberate attention to each piece, the texture - it is perhaps the perfect way to put ink on paper.  In fact, as print media "dies" I would suspect that letterpress is going to only grow in influence and strength.  This is the true heart of ink on paper.

Thanks go out to Eva Jorgensen for Sycamore Street - and thanks to Letterpress printers everywhere for practicing a truly noble craft.

Bonus Link: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letterpress_printing">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letterpress_printing</a>
