Date: 2009-9-2
Categories: /archive

# I don’t care about business models of journalism/publishing.

<div class="Clog_Commentary_Wrap"><div class="Clog_Post_Text"><p>Well, I kind of do.  That is - to paraphrase the immortal words of our former President - what puts food on my family after all. Still, this post from science blogger Bora Zivkovic touches on a feeling I&#8217;ve been having more and more these days.  Namely that all this talk of business models and paywalls is blinding us to the truly amazing and at times beautiful transition that&#8217;s underway.<br />
<br />
Still, I do think that if the industry stops obsessing over the revenue aspect and starts to accept and delight in the actual evolutionary aspects of what&#8217;s happening we&#8217;d find the answers much easier. We need to abandon neo-contemporary models completely. Only then might we enter a process of intelligent deconstruction that listens for cues rather than builds on nostalgia. We need to see that the solution - the only solution that makes sense - is deeply embedded in the problem.</p></div></div><div class="Clog_Content_Outer"><!-- BEGIN_CLOG_CONTENT ID: AEB5AA09-37C6-4C8E-B2D0-D19449A0A5AB CLOGS.CLIPMARKS.COM --><div class="Clog_Top_Wrap"><div class="Clog_Source_First"><span>Clipped from <a rel="clipsource"  title="http://scienceblogs.com/clock/2009/08/i_dont_care_about_business_mod.php" href="http://scienceblogs.com/clock/2009/08/i_dont_care_about_business_mod.php">scienceblogs.com</a></span></div></div><div class="Clog_Middle_Wrap"><blockquote class="Clog_Content_Item" cite="http://scienceblogs.com/clock/2009/08/i_dont_care_about_business_mod.php"><table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr><td><P>Business model! Business model! All they care about is business model. I am excited about the way the Web is transforming society and all they care is how to save their jobs! I get it - they should care. The new media ecosystem can support a much smaller number of professional journalists than the old one. So many (though not all) will lose their jobs. I don&#8217;t have an interest in that aspect of the media business at all. If they have any other expertise besides scribbling, they will find other jobs once their media houses lock the doors. If not, tough. But I am really not interested in their livelihoods. Just like blacksmiths found jobs in car factories, the journos will find something else to do. I am interested in the ways new media channels are changing the world, not the parochial or individual insecurities of those whose world is changing. I am an interested observer of the revolution and saving the inevitable victims is not my job.</P><span class="Clog_Source_Button"><a rel="clipsource"  title="http://scienceblogs.com/clock/2009/08/i_dont_care_about_business_mod.php" href="http://scienceblogs.com/clock/2009/08/i_dont_care_about_business_mod.php">Read more at scienceblogs.com</a></span></td></tr></table></blockquote></div><div class="Clog_Bottom_Wrap">&nbsp;</div></div>
