Date: 2009-8-13
Categories: /archive

# Magazine publishers need to think less about form and more about flow

<p>Ok, so <a href="http://flypemedia.com">Flyp</a> is pretty... I guess.  That is, it's pretty in a digital edition, lets throw some bells, whistles and Flash at them kind of way.  
</p><p>
Still, if this is the future of magazine publishing the industry may be in some serious shit.  If we can't get beyond this destination mentality, this egocentric way of looking at media, this fundamentally print conditioned approach that ignores the user's evolving and increasingly flow based media interaction, then I fear the die off we've seen recently will only be the beginning.
</p><p>
Suggestions for Flyp: Acknowledge the mediasphere you live in. Let your readers interact with your high quality content in a way that is natural to the web.  Accentuate sharing (beyond the kind of lame email a friend feature). 
</p><p>
If magazine publishers really want to get serious about surviving they'd do well to worry less about digital presentation and more about how their content logically fits in the overall media ecology.  Flash is nice, video is occasionally interesting, but interoperability with the natural and organic flow of the other media and other communities in my life is truly priceless.</p>
<cite class="post-meta">Originally posted as a <a href="http://www.mediabistro.com/fishbowlny/new_media/flyps_james_gaines_offers_old_media_a_new_way_of_thinking_about_online_content_124105.asp#comment-14794292">comment</a> by <a href="http://disqus.com/people/mturro/">mturro</a> on <a href="http://www.mediabistro.com/fishbowlny">mediabistro.com: FishBowlNY</a> using <a href="http://disqus.com">Disqus</a>.</cite>
</p><p>
<b>Addendum (written on an iPhone so excuse any mis-spellings or typos):</b>   I think I can distill the above thoughts a bit more and perhaps gain a little clarity - if for nobody's benefit but my own. 

What I'm getting at here is perhaps the single biggest mistake publishers make when charting a course forward: the tendency to get hung up on things that change rapidly rather than looking at the slower, more long term change that is underway. 

While there is no doubt that massive change is happening in the presentation layer it is generally thin and easily adapted to.  

The more troublesome change afoot is the slow change happening at the foundational level. It's in that layer that we're witnessing a once every 500 years paradigm shift. It's this change that demands of publishers an absolute overhaul of their impacted worldview.

You can redesign your site or come up with all the fancy front end tech you have the money to pay developers for, but without a commitment to changing your editorial approach away from the fortification mentality your surely just wasting money.        
