Date: 2009-9-1
Categories: /archive

# ! 'Everything I know about navigating the infocology I learned on Phish lot:
  go with the flow.'

<div class="Clog_Commentary_Wrap"><div class="Clog_Post_Text"><p>Man this post is dead on - I mean DEAD ON - with what my experience in the infocology has been.  An anecdote: I could never read while music was playing or people were talking or the television was on.  Just didn&#8217;t have the focus.  Within the last five years - the years in which I have started to develop the method and tools required for dealing with the massive amount of information the web generates - I have overcome this inability to read anywhere but in a quiet space.  I now routinely read books on the train while listening to music through headphones.  I attribute this increase in my capability of attentiveness and focus directly to the mental exercise of sifting through an endless and growing flow of information.  And they say Google is making us stupid.</p></div></div><div class="Clog_Content_Outer"><!-- BEGIN_CLOG_CONTENT ID: 1037E008-E243-4B30-9A0E-B31A66ED418C CLOGS.CLIPMARKS.COM --><div class="Clog_Top_Wrap"><div class="Clog_Source_First"><span>Clipped from <a rel="clipsource"  title="http://spacecollective.org/Wildcat/5113/Of-Onions-and-Infocologies-Thriving-in-the-age-of-hyperconnectivity" href="http://spacecollective.org/Wildcat/5113/Of-Onions-and-Infocologies-Thriving-in-the-age-of-hyperconnectivity">spacecollective.org</a></span></div></div><div class="Clog_Middle_Wrap"><blockquote class="Clog_Content_Item" cite="http://spacecollective.org/Wildcat/5113/Of-Onions-and-Infocologies-Thriving-in-the-age-of-hyperconnectivity"><table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr><td>Notwithstanding the latest plethora of articles, studies and research on the topic of attention and multitasking (see the list at bottom) implying a deterioration of attention, literacy and wisdom, I remain convinced that the apparent fragmentation we are witnessing (including the lowering of performance in certain tests and test subjects) is part of a larger narrative. The larger picture we need to look at without fear is the evolution of our civilization and our minds, a narrative of our times in which we are actually changing the very modes of comprehension and meaning extraction and creation.<BR />
For though it is probably true for some that hyperconnectivity and multitasking are lowering their capability of concentration and in-depth analysis it is also highly probable that for others (myself included) the proliferation of tasks and interruptions are a boon and actually increase our capability of attentiveness and focus. Moreover, it is also probable that <a rel="nofollow"  href="http://www.today.ucla.edu/portal/ut/081015_gary-small-ibrain.aspx">our brains are being rewired</A> so as to accentuate the advantage of multiple and simultaneous realities interplaying in our minds.<BR />
It is obvious that the actual shift that is demanded of us so as to join <B>gracefully</B> the InfoTech revolution and the infoflow in particular is a mind shift, a perceptual change of paradigm.<BR /><DIV>
The perceptual shift we need perform is one of descriptive virtualization, or a re-description of our reflexive nature; by consciously extending the reach of our mind state we may be able to hasten the plasticity of our virtual contextualization.</DIV><span class="Clog_Source_Button"><a rel="clipsource"  title="http://spacecollective.org/Wildcat/5113/Of-Onions-and-Infocologies-Thriving-in-the-age-of-hyperconnectivity" href="http://spacecollective.org/Wildcat/5113/Of-Onions-and-Infocologies-Thriving-in-the-age-of-hyperconnectivity">Read more at spacecollective.org</a></span></td></tr></table></blockquote></div><div class="Clog_Bottom_Wrap">&nbsp;</div></div>
