Date: 2009-1-7
Categories: /archive

# A Commentary on Hirschorn's  "End Times"

<p><a href="http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200901/new-york-times">End Times - The Atlantic (January/February 2009)</a> - In this otherwise coherent and well reasoned piece on the uncertain future of the New York Times (and journalism in general) Michael Hirschorn writes the following:

<blockquote>...but for now, at least, there&rsquo;s no online substitute for institutions that can marshal years of well-developed sourcing and reporting experience&mdash;not to mention the resources to, say, send journalists leapfrogging between Mumbai and Islamabad to decode the complexities of the India-Pakistan conflict.</blockquote>

Hmmm... this doesn't really ring true to me.  Certainly if we look at the current information flow through the prism of traditional journalistic operations Mr. Hirschorn is right.  Yet, if we take the blinders off and look at the situation in the white light of a new and emergent paradigm, then the idea of sending well fed Americans to far flung countries to decode (or encode for western tastes perhaps) the complex stories of foreign conflict seems to be rather absurd. 

In a networked world we are connected in real time - events unfold and are witnessed and what was once a journalistic source is now a raw feed.  The traditional role of the journalist - to weave these sources, these raw feeds into a coherent story - is quickly becoming an individual civic responsibility.  

We are now - each of us - responsible for decoding our own stories.  We receive the raw feed - via twitter, or You Tube, or maybe Wordpress - and we use these raw pieces to distill our own individualized perspectives. This process has the potential to help us create a certain toughness of the mind - a strengthening of the intellect - that could transform political and social discourse in a real and positive way - in a way that traditional journalism never could.  This is - in a very real sense - an overthrow of the entrenched corporate media perspective.

Mr. Hirschorn almost understands this - at least on some level. As he paints his picture of what could be he writes:

<blockquote>As David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker, pointed out at a recent media breakfast, the blogging and local reporting from Mumbai in the early hours of the November terrorist attacks were nothing short of remarkable. Ditto in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. I recall avidly following the 2006 crisis in Lebanon through a variety of sources, none less interesting or credible because it was, say, Haaretz instead of The Times. Like neighboring hospitals coordinating their purchases of expensive MRI equipment, journalistic outlets will discover that the Web allows (okay, forces) them to concentrate on developing expertise in a narrower set of issues and interests, while helping journalists from other places and publications find new audiences.</blockquote>

You see, he gets half way there. Gone in his new improved digital scenario are the well fed Americans fattening up sources on New York Times expense accounts - we get local.  So far so good.  Where he goes off the rails here is his vision of the local voice being - you guessed it - a local media voice - a professional - a journalist.  

What about the cab driver? The student? The whistleblower? These people can and will be going straight to the world - straight to you. These are your sources - you, dear reader, are now the journalist - we all are.

Ok - so that's a lot of responsibility to throw on the poor old civic shoulders - especially when those shoulders have gone so soft from so many years of having their news stories fed to them like so many Big Macs. But so what - democracy (real democracy) is hard work.  In the future people will have the newspaper they deserve.   

I realize that I'm in danger of falling into Mr. Hirschorn's "Internet purist" trap with all this idealistic rhetoric - and perhaps I can be accused of being callous to the plight of the journalistic profession - but I don't care. 

I don't care at all actually - for one reason - journalists have a tremendous opportunity to be the leaders, the prophets, the teachers, the philosophers of this shift.  The journalistic skill set will be invaluable in this new information landscape and authentic journalistic voices will lead the charge.  

News organizations like the New York Times also have a real opportunity here - an opportunity to give their centuries of experience twenty-frist century relevance - an opportunity to thrive as the platform, the salon, the forum, the lyceum - an opportunity to usher in a new way of reporting the affairs of the world. That is if they ever figure out what's going on. 

