Date: 2009-2-3
Categories: /archive

# Deep Media and the Durability of Ideas

<p><a href="http://www.deepmediaonline.com/">Deep Media</a> - A while back I swore I was going to try and keep a running tally of new feeds I add to my daily RSS ingestion - the goal there was to try and give myself (if not you the reader) a more complete picture of the whos and whys of my online reading habits.  Needless to say I have been a bit lazy in keeping to this regimen.

However, today I added a feed that is so completely within my philosophical wheelhouse I felt compelled to share it here.  The blog (<a href="http://www.deepmediaonline.com">Deep Media</a>) is for the upcoming book <em>Welcome to the Hyperdrom</em>e by Wired columnist Frank Rose.  In the author's words:

<blockquote>The idea is to document&mdash;and where possible to participate in&mdash;the attempt to forge a new type of storytelling that&rsquo;s native to the Internet. After centuries of linear storytelling, the Internet is encouraging the emergence of a radically new style of narrative&mdash;one that&rsquo;s told through many media at once in a nonlinear fashion. Such narratives encourage you not merely to watch but to participate, and in the process they become something resembling a game. This is "deep media": stories that are not just entertaining but immersive, that take you deeper than an hour-long TV drama or a two-hour movie or a 30-second spot will permit. </blockquote>

Great stuff.  I toyed with very similar concepts in the early stages of thinking through my Master's thesis - but a combination of facts (it was 1996, before literature was media, I was enrolled in a fairly conservative New Jersey teacher factory, none of my advisers had any real sense of what the internet was, they had a very formulaic structure for thesis writing) made it hard to do new types of work.  So instead of traveling down the well worn road of academic literary theory I bailed. 

In the decade plus it has been since I left the academic world sites like Deep Media and writers like Frank Rose (<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Jenkins">Henry Jenkins</a> has to be singled out here as well) have provided me with the material I need to continue studying these ideas outside the institutional setting.  For that reason I am excited to see just where he (we?) takes the blog and his book.
