Date: 2011-1-5
Categories: old

# Hey America! Put down the Cheetos–there's a scumbag in your pocket.

<div class="Amp_Commentary_Wrap"><div class="Amp_Post_Text"><p>What truly amazes me is the extent to which folks in the USA just don't see this. Sure there is some vague anger out there over the economy, but the way in which that anger is directed away from Wall Street and toward the Federal Government leaves me dumbstruck. Sure DC is filled with spineless sell-out scumbags, but that's pretty much a product of our own ignorance, not a pre-requisite of government. If we put half as much collective energy into choosing our representatives as we put into choosing the next American Idol, we might get somewhere. All in all if we (the people) are going to have any say in this fight we (the people) are going to want good, strong, active representation–not a shredded, hollow, shell of corporate stooges. Of all the dangers we face Socialism is for certain the least of our worries. So if you're angry, if you want a tea party, if you want to take America back–stop harping on Obama or Democrats or Republicans and look at what's happening. Enough is enough, indeed.</p></div></div><div class=""><div class="Amp_Content_Outer"><div class="Amp_Top_Wrap"><div class="Amp_Source_First"><span>Amplify&rsquo;d from <a rel="clipsource" target="_blank" title="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/" href="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/">newsjunkiepost.com</a></span></div></div><div class="Amp_Middle_Wrap"><blockquote class="Amp_Content_Item" cite="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/"><table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr><td><div class="TxtCntnt"><p id="AutoGeneratedID-1">Government  waste does not begin to equal what the banks and financial institutions  have stolen. &#160;Yes, it needs to be dealt with, but it is nothing but a  diversion from what is really going on. &#160;What is happening is that the  American people are being asked to pay for the money that the Federal  Reserve created so that the government could hand it back over to bail  out Wall Street and the Banks. &#160;It&#8217;s that simple. &#160;The Federal Reserve  created money, loaned it to the American people, whose government handed  it over to the banks, leaving the American people to pay the money  back, plus interest. The banks robbed America, plain and simple.</p></div></td></tr></table></blockquote><div class="Amp_Content_Hr"></div><blockquote class="Amp_Content_Item" cite="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/"><table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr><td><div class="TxtCntnt"><p id="AutoGeneratedID-0">Smaller  government? &#160;Less regulation? &#160;Why? So that the public will have even  less strength and representation. &#160;The government is your government;  of, by, and for the people. &#160;Why would you want to disempower yourself  against a financial and corporate juggernaut that has already proven  itself anti-social, and anti-environmental, while being pro-war, and  singularly profit-oriented? &#160;It&#8217;s madness. &#160;You&#8217;ve been robbed, and  pillaged, and are now being convinced that you should weaken the only  defense you have.</p></div></td></tr></table></blockquote><div class="Amp_Content_Hr"></div><blockquote class="Amp_Content_Item" cite="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/"><table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr><td><div class="TxtCntnt"><p id="AutoGeneratedID-2">The  people of the world are under attack from a small number of very  wealthy people who have convinced us that they own everything, and that  we have to pay them for our very existence. &#160;It is time to wake up and  realize the confidence game with which we have all been victimized.  &#160;Austerity is what our politicians should be demanding from the banks  and the corporations, not us. &#160;The right to exist is what we should be  granting corporations and financial institutions, not the other way  around. &#160;The constituents should be the most powerful lobbyists in any  capital, not the corporations and banks. &#160;We&#8217;ve allowed our world to be  turned upside down. &#160;Enough is enough.</p></div><span class="Amp_Source_Button"><a rel="clipsource" target="_blank" title="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/" href="http://newsjunkiepost.com/2011/01/04/the-austerity-scam-next-target-the-u-s-a-2/">Read more at newsjunkiepost.com</a></span></td></tr></table></blockquote></div><div class="Amp_Bottom_Wrap">&nbsp;</div></div></div><div class="Amp_Link">See this Amp at <a href="http://bit.ly/eNpT9B">http://bit.ly/eNpT9B</a></div><br/>
