Date: 2011-2-16
Categories: /archive

# The silver lining in Apple's subscription announcement

<div class="Amp_Commentary_Wrap"><div class="Amp_Post_Text"><p>As with almost ALL Apple communications there is enough vague language and under-specified "requirements" in the two paragraphs clipped at the end of this post to set off a blaze of debate capable of consuming nearly all the oxygen on the web. Apple are nothing if not masterful at crafting quasi technical press releases that get people talking and thinking about Apple, iPad, iPhone, iOS, and the way in which those products dominate their markets.<br />
<br />
Many analysts are thrown by the big flares (you must use Apple's in-app subscription, you can't link from the app to an outside store, and Apple will take 30% of your sales) and completely miss the big picture. For me, the real news in this whole announcement is that bit that states: <br />
<br />
"Customers purchasing a subscription through the App Store will be given the option of providing the publisher with their name, email address and zip code when they subscribe."  <br />
<br />
The OPTION. This is clearly a user focused plan and it's overriding goal is to protect and enhance the experience for users–not developers and publishers. That's important and it's something all developers and publishers should fully support. That many are not says more about them than it does about Apple.<br />
<br />
While it has been reported (somewhat simplistically) that the sticking point for publishers has been access to user data, what's been ignored has been the ways in which the Apple firewall around user data is actually an invitation to innovate. <br />
<br />
Here's a scenario: I'm a publisher that offers digital content across a number of platforms (web, iOS, Android, Boxee, Playstation, Windows Phone 7, etc.). I offer a digital subscription that opens access to all those platforms. Simply sign up through me and I give you a name and password that opens the locks on all of those doors. Have a game console in the living room, an iPad in the den, and an Android in your pocket? One account, one subscription, multiple platforms.<br />
<br />
Now imaging you come to me from Apple. You download my app from iTunes and open it and get an offer to sign up using your iTunes account. I'm offering that subscription at the same price as (or cheaper than) the other one I offer through my site. Apple is taking 30% of that sale. Yet since I (the publisher) have no automatic way to connect that AppleID to my complete digital subscription package (and in fact am barred from doing so by Apple's terms) that account is restricted to Steve's world. (At least until Apple starts federating AppleID the same way Google, Twitter, Facebook and a bunch of others have.)<br />
<br />
The Apple is Evil crowd is probably thinking that Apple is going to try to find a way to stop this from happening, but there is just no way they can. As powerful as Apple is they simply cannot stop the world from turning or extract a tax from every transaction that happens on the web everywhere. Nor do I think they even want to. This announcement is simply about making life easier for the loyalist Apple user, not about dominating publishing or the web or life. It's about reducing or eliminating confusion and friction on Apple devices. And as far as I'm concerned that's a positive thing.</p></div></div><div class=" ClipTheme picframe"><div class="Amp_Content_Outer"><div class="Amp_Top_Wrap"><div class="Amp_Source_First"><span>Amplify&rsquo;d from <a rel="clipsource" target="_blank" title="http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/02/15appstore.html" href="http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/02/15appstore.html">www.apple.com</a></span></div></div><div class="Amp_Middle_Wrap"><blockquote class="Amp_Content_Item" cite="http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/02/15appstore.html"><table cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0"><tr><td><div class="TxtCntnt"><p>Publishers who use Apple&#8217;s subscription service in their app can also leverage other methods for acquiring digital subscribers outside of the app. For example, publishers can sell digital subscriptions on their web sites, or can choose to provide free access to existing subscribers. Since Apple is not involved in these transactions, there is no revenue sharing or exchange of customer information with Apple. Publishers must provide their own authentication process inside the app for subscribers that have signed up outside of the app. However, Apple does require that if a publisher chooses to sell a digital subscription separately outside of the app, that same subscription offer must be made available, at the same price or less, to customers who wish to subscribe from within the app. In addition, publishers may no longer provide links in their apps (to a web site, for example) which allow the customer to purchase content or subscriptions outside of the app.
</p>
<p>
Protecting customer privacy is a key feature of all App Store transactions. Customers purchasing a subscription through the App Store will be given the option of providing the publisher with their name, email address and zip code when they subscribe. The use of such information will be governed by the publisher&#8217;s privacy policy rather than Apple&#8217;s. Publishers may seek additional information from App Store customers provided those customers are given a clear choice, and are informed that any additional information will be handled under the publisher&#8217;s privacy policy rather than Apple&#8217;s.</p></div><span class="Amp_Source_Button"><a rel="clipsource" target="_blank" title="http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/02/15appstore.html" href="http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/02/15appstore.html">Read more at www.apple.com</a></span></td></tr></table></blockquote></div><div class="Amp_Bottom_Wrap">&nbsp;</div></div></div><div class="Amp_Link">See this Amp at <a href="http://bit.ly/fNzP1E">http://bit.ly/fNzP1E</a></div><br/>
